Add v1 Productions docs (#1217)
elevenlabs/elevenlabs-docs: fern/docs/pages/services/productions/transcripts.mdx

---
title: Transcripts
subtitle: Human-edited transcripts from ElevenLabs Productions
---

## General

Transcripts ordered from Productions are reviewed and corrected by native speakers for maximum accuracy.
We offer 2 types of human transcripts:
| **Option** | **When to use it** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Non‑verbatim (”clean”)** | Podcasts, webinars, marketing, personal use | Removes filler words, stutters, audio event tags for smoother reading. Focuses on transcribing the core meaning. Most suitable for the majority of use-cases. |

> | **Verbatim** | Legal, research | Attempts to capture <i>exactly</i> what is said, including all filler words, stutters and audio event tags. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Verbatim** | Legal, research | Attempts to capture _exactly_ what is said, including all filler words, stutters and audio event tags. |
```

- For a more detailed breakdown of non-verbatim vs. verbatim transcription options, please see the [**Style guides**](#style-guides) section below.
- For more information about other Productions services, please see the [Overview](/docs/pages/services/productions/overview.mdx) page.

## How it works

<Steps>
  <Step title="Order transcript">
    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Transcribing new files">
        ### Productions page
        The easiest way to order a new transcript from Productions is from the [Productions](https://elevenlabs.io/app/productions) page in your ElevenLabs account.
        <Frame background="subtle">
          <img src="/assets/images/productions/productions-home.png" alt="Productions Home" />
        </Frame>

        ### Speech to Text Order Dialog

>         You can also select the 'Human Transcript' option in the [Speech to Text](/docs/pages/capabilities/speech-to-text.mdx) order dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        You can also select the _Human Transcript_ option in the [Speech to Text](/docs/pages/capabilities/speech-to-text.mdx) order dialog.
```

        <Frame background="subtle">
          <img src="/assets/images/productions/productions-stt-dialog.png" alt="Productions STT Dialog" />
        </Frame>

      </Accordion>
      <Accordion title="Starting from an existing transcript">

>         Open an existing transcript and click the 'Get human review' button to create a new Productions order for that transcript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Open an existing transcript and click the _Get human review_ button to create a new Productions order for that transcript.
```

        <Frame background="subtle">
          <img src="/assets/images/productions/productions-get-human-review.png" alt="Productions Get Human Review" />
        </Frame>
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>

  </Step>
  <Step title="Export transcript">
    You will receive an email notification when your transcript is ready and see it marked as 'Done' on your Productions page.
    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Quick export">

>           Open a transcript on your [Productions](https://elevenlabs.io/app/productions) page and click the three dots -> "Export."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Open a transcript on your [Productions](https://elevenlabs.io/app/productions) page and click the three dots, then the _Export_ button.
```

          <Frame background="subtle">
            ![Export menu](/assets/images/productions/productions-export.gif)
          </Frame>
      </Accordion>
      <Accordion title="Export from viewer">

>           Open a transcript on your [Productions](https://elevenlabs.io/app/productions) page and click the 'View' icon to open the transcript viewer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Open a transcript on your [Productions](https://elevenlabs.io/app/productions) page and click the _View_ icon to open the transcript viewer.
```

          <Frame background="subtle">
            ![Viewer export menu](/assets/images/productions/productions-viewer-export.gif)
          </Frame>
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Pricing

> All prices are USD ($) and per minute of source audio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All prices are in USD ($) and per minute of source audio.
```

**Note:** prices are subject to change. You will always see the final price for an order during the checkout process.

## SLAs / Delivery Time

We aim to deliver all transcripts **within 48 hours.** If you are an enterprise interested in achieving quicker turnaround times, please contact us at productions@elevenlabs.io.

## Style guides

When ordering a Productions transcript, you will see the option to activate 'Verbatim' mode for an extra 30% fee. Please read the breakdown below for more information about this option.

<Frame background="subtle">
  <img src="/assets/images/productions/productions-style-guide.png" alt="Productions Style Guide" />
</Frame>

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Non-verbatim">
    Non-verbatim transcription, also called *clean* or *intelligent verbatim*, focuses on clarity and readability. Unlike verbatim transcriptions, it removes unnecessary elements like filler words, stutters, and irrelevant sounds while preserving the speaker’s message.

    **Note:** This is the default option for Productions transcriptions. Unless you explicitly select 'Verbatim' mode, we will deliver a non-verbatim transcript.

>     What gets left out in non-verbatim transcripts?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    What gets left out in non-verbatim transcripts
```

      - **Filler words and verbal tics** like “um,” “like,” “you know,” or “I mean”
      - **Repetitions** including intentional and unintentional (e.g. stuttering)
      - **Audio event tags,** including non-verbal sounds like [coughing] or [throat clearing] as well as environmental sounds like [dog barking]

>       - **Slang or incorrect grammar** (e.g. you should correct ‘ain’t’ → ‘is not’)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - **Slang or incorrect grammar** (e.g. correct ‘ain’t’ to ‘is not’)
```

| **Non-verbal human sounds** | Human non-verbal sounds like [laughing], [sighing], [swallowing] are transcribed inline. | "I—[sighs]—don't know."                                      | Most non-verbal sounds are excluded unless they impact meaning.                                                                                                                                                                                                         | "I don't know."                                                                  |
| **Environmental Sounds**    | Environmental sounds are described in square brackets.                                   | "[door slams], [birds chirping], [phone buzzes]"             | Omit unless essential to meaning. **Include if:** 1. The sound impacts emotion or meaning 2. The sound is directly referenced by the speaker                                                                                                                            | "What was that noise? [dog barking]" "Hang on, I hear something [door slamming]" |

  </Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

## FAQ

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="What if I'm not happy with the result?">

>     You can leave feedback on a completed transcript by opening it (use the 'View' option in the sidebar) and clicking the 'Feedback' button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can leave feedback on a completed transcript by opening it (use the 'View' option in the sidebar) and clicking the _Feedback_ button.
```

  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Can I make changes once I receive the final version?">

>     For now, no. You can export a completed transcript and make changes off platform. We plan to add support for this soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    No. You can export a completed transcript and make changes off platform. We plan to add support for this soon.
```
